{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f153\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f154\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f156\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f157\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f158\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx204\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext15 TxBr_p0;}{\s16\qc\sl240\slmult0
\nowidctlpar\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext16 TxBr_c1;}{\s17\qc\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext17 TxBr_c2;}{\s18\qj\li925\sl476\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx515\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext18 TxBr_p3;}{\s19\qj\li925\sl481\slmult0
\nowidctlpar\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext19 TxBr_p4;}{\s20\qj\li902\sl476\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx538\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext20 TxBr_p5;}{\s21\qj\li1027\sl481\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx413\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext21 TxBr_p6;}{\s22\qj\sl240\slmult0
\nowidctlpar\tx204\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext22 TxBr_p7;}{\s23\li925\sl476\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx515\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext23 TxBr_p8;}{\s24\li925\sl481\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext24 TxBr_p9;}{\s25\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar
\tx204\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext25 TxBr_p10;}{\s26\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext26 TxBr_t11;}{\s27\fi-805\li635\sl481\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx805\tx2239\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext27 TxBr_p12;}{\s28\sl481\slmult0
\nowidctlpar\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext28 TxBr_p13;}{\s29\sl481\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx5657\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext29 TxBr_p14;}{\s30\sl481\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext30 TxBr_p15;}{\s31\li9178\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar
\tx10618\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext31 TxBr_p16;}{\s32\sl481\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx204\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext32 TxBr_p17;}{\s33\fi1446\li413\sl481\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx413\tx1859\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext33 TxBr_p18;}{
\s34\li1027\sl481\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx413\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext34 TxBr_p19;}{\s35\li1038\sl481\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx402\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext35 TxBr_p20;}{\s36\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx204\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext36 TxBr_p21;}{
\s37\li1038\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext37 TxBr_p22;}{\s38\sl481\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx204\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext38 TxBr_p23;}{\s39\li1282\sl487\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx158\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext39 TxBr_p24;}{
\s40\li566\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx2006\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext40 TxBr_p25;}{\s41\fi453\sl481\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx453\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext41 TxBr_p26;}{\s42\li1282\sl487\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx158\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext42 
TxBr_p27;}}{\info{\title A Short Sketch of the Life of James Moses}{\author Ken Blaylock}{\operator Ken Blaylock}{\creatim\yr2000\mo7\dy20\hr15\min35}{\revtim\yr2000\mo7\dy20\hr15\min35}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords1505}{\nofchars8582}
{\*\company Home}{\nofcharsws10539}{\vern113}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\headery1440\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs36 A Short Sketch of the Life of James Moses
\par }{By his grandson Jesse Tilton Moses
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par James Moses born Feb. 28 1806; was the son of Jesse Moses and Ester Brown, whose family consisted of nine children: Giles, b. Apr. 26, 1789; Achsa, b. Dec.  9, 1797; Roxylana, b.
 Apr. 22, 1804; James, the subject of this sketch; Julian, b. Apr. 11, 1810; Fidelia. b. Jan. 13, 1810; Annie; Phebe; Parnell, I haven't been able to obtain the birth date of the last three girls.
\par 
\par According to the Terry history James Moses married Apr. 9,
 1833 Roxy Mariah Terry of Norfolk, Conn. They joined the Mormons and moved to Caanan Conn. two children were born to them in Caanan; Jane Mariah b. Apr. 20, 1835; John b. Oct. 2, 1837; D. Feb. 29, 1840; John was born in Kirtland Ohio I have found out lat
e
r. He also died there. Roxy died shortly after John was born... After his wife, Roxy's death James moved to Nauvoo and married in Nauvoo, about 1839, Eliza Spencer; Their family consisted of the following sons and daughters; John Moroni, b. July 12, 1840;
 d. Oct. 23, 1840; Martha Ester, b. Oct. 15, 1844; These two were born in Nauvoo.
\par 
\par The persecutions become so severe in Nauvoo at this time, the saints were forced to leave the beautiful city, James Moses moved into Council Bluffs Iowa. Three children were 
born to them in this place; my father Jesse Tilton b. May 9, 1848; Eliza Ann (Newman) b. Aug. 9, 1850; James Spencer, b, Feb. 14, 1853. It was grandfather's intention to move West with the saints prior to this time. But owing to the misfortune of loosing 
o
ne yoke of oxen and having another stolen by the indians--was left without outfits to move on. This, however, proved fortunate for at this time he received word from his father to come back home and take care of he and his mother until they died then sett
l
e up the estate. He asked President Young's advice on the matter and was told "by all means go back and take care of your folks." Grandfather had a little money, about $800 which he loaned to the immigration fund and started his long trek of 1500 miles ba
ck to Caanan Conn. Uncle Fred, as he was afterwards affectionately called, was born in Caanan June 5, 1856; his name, Fredrick Fillmore Moses.
\par 
\par James Moses and his family sojourned in Caanan until 1861 when they immi\-grated to Utah. He took care of his fath
ers estate which consisted of a lumber mill, a grist mill, a grove of maple trees, a farm, some grazing land, and a small dairy, also some chickens. They sold eggs, butter, and cheese, in the spring they made quite a quantity of maple sugar; I have in my 
possession an eight gallon brass kettle which they used to boil down their maple syrup. I also have a hickory walking stick that has been in the Moses family for four generations.
\par 
\par Aunt Martha as well as my father used to tell of their walking to school a d
istance of two miles except when the weather was bad then the folks would take them in their carriage. Some time in the winter the snow would get so deep it would cover the fences and it was no trouble to drive over them in their sleigh.
\par 
\par When grandfather 
arrived in Utah in 1861 he purchased from a Mr. Gibson--a tract of land in the neighborhood of 80 acres located on Big Cotton creek. There were a number of cottonwood groves on the place. I well remember grandfather, as I was 13 years old when he passed a
way. Dur\-
ing the time when I was from 11 to 13 we stayed at grandfathers quite a lot. When he came to Utah he brought with him a few head of cows, some oxen, and some good horses. He always raised a good garden. I was out with him one day while he was hoein
g in the garden. I noticed he would walk from the bottom of the row to the top to start hoeing each time. I asked him "Why do you do that?" Well, he said, " the ground is so level, I have to keep pulling the dirt toward the ditch so the water will run thr
ough." He also raised a patch of pumpkins for his cows, he had a vegetable cellar in the side of a hill some distance from the house where he kept his vegetables and app\-
les. He had a nice apple orchard. I used to go up to the cellar with him and help him cut up his pumpkins for his cows. Then he would tell me stories.
\par 
\par One story he told about his father. His father kept a negro servant; One day he wanted a pole to put in his corral. He called Mose, as he called his negro servant, I want you to go out and ge
t me a pole and Mose, I want a straight one. Mose accordingly went and brought in the pole and reported; "Masa I got the pole." "Well Mose, was it straight." "Yes Masa, fact Masa, it was so straight it leaned back a little."
\par 
\par I am indebted to my father for this one. "Uncle Julian bought a mowing ma\-
chine for outing hay, it was of course horse drawn, and one of the first to come into Utah. Uncle Julian told father that if he would come up, he lived at East Mill Creek, and help him put up his hay he could tak
e the machine to cut his own hay. So father went up and helped uncle Julians indian boy Ike put up his hay; then took the machine down home, they lived about four miles apart, when father drove into the yard grandfather looked at the outfit and said 
\ldblquote take that thing off--wont have it on the place." Father went down to the field and started cutting hay. Grandfather came down with a scythe on his shoulder. By the time he got there father had gone a round or two, (grandfath\-
er was quite an adept at swinging a 
scythe), but after watching the mower for a minute or two he put the scythe on his shoulder and went to the house. He raised mostly meadow hay. He put what he could in the barn. The best--that he wanted to feed his milk cows. The wild hay, he stacked clos
e
 to the corral for his young stock. His stacks weren't very large as they had to pitch the hay off the wagon by hand. And in the wintertime, instead of taking the top off the stack, he had a long stick forked at one end, which he would shove into the stac
k and pull the hay out with it. He thought that was most econom\-ical. He would bring his pumpkins that he had cut up down from the cellar in a wheel borrow for his cows. He would feed his horses and cows a few carr\-
ots and took a great deal of pride in having his stock look good. In the fall, when the apples were ripe, he would feed his cows a few. He had o
ne tree that bore a large quantity of small golden sweet apples he liked for his cows. He didn't get all of them for his cows, for we children thought there was no apple quite so good as those golden sweets.
\par 
\par While residing in Nauvoo James Moses became very intimately acquainted with the prophet Joseph Smith. On one occasion when the mob was searching for the prophet he slipped over to the Moses home unbeknown
 to any one and had a good night's rest without fear of being molested because the mob wouldn't be looking for him there. In the morning grandma Moses fixed a good breakfast for him and took it in his room on a tray. The tray is tre\-
asured in the family ye
t. Grandfather used to visit the prophet at his home. On one of these errands just as he was leaving the prophet asked him if he had a book of Mormon. Grandfather said he didn't have one. So the prophet autographed one of the first that came from the pres
s and gave to him. This book is now in my own family.
\par 
\par After coming to Utah grandfather had many visits from the church authorit\-ies especially when the U. S. Marshals were hunting for them. Grandfather's place had a number of cottonwood groves and in some 
of the groves was plenty of underbrush making good places of concealment; also a splendid breeding place for the brush rabbit and quail. Some of his friends liked to come out in the wintertime for a little quail hunting.
\par 
\par President Woodruff would sometimes
 go out to the Moses farm while hiding from the Marshals. While grandfather Woodruff was on the place grandfather Moses was very cautious not to make his identity known, he wouldn't let his neighbors know of his being there. On one occasion, Wilford was t
h
ere and wanted something to do. So James set him to pruning his orchard. While up in the tree a neighbor drove into the yard and seeing this man up in the tree asked James who he had treed up there, to which James replied, "O, just an old codger that want
ed a job for a day or two."
\par 
\par James Moses was a man of slender build about five foot seven inches tall and weighed about 130 pounds he stood erect walked straight and was light on his feet. He was very supple at the age of 60 he could grip a straight stick i
n his bands and jump over it forward and backward a number of times.
\par 
\par James Moses' home on Big cottonwood creek was a story and a half--adobe stru\-cture--the attic being large enough for two bed rooms and a storage room. The ground floor has on the West si
de, a pantry and a bedroom, in the center of the building was a large dining room and on the east side of this room was a large fireplace and a stairway leading to the attic. On the east part of the house was a loving room, a bedroom, and a storeroom.

\par 
\par The fireplace was large enough to hold an ample supply of wood over the fireplace was a large mantle, which held a number of heirlooms and grand\-
father's eight-day clock. On the north side of the fireplace and next to the stairway was grandfather's favorite chair where he would spend the long winter evenings, singing songs to the kids, telling stories, and eating appl\-es.
\par 
\par Grandfather was of a retiring nature he didn't make a lot of to-do over religion but was always ready to lend a helping hand to those in ne
ed. He went to church regularly he would get ready a little early and strike out and walk he would rather walk than ride.
\par 
\par Friday was his market day he sold butter and eggs to regular customers in Salt Lake City. For many years he would sometime take his b
asket of eggs and walk into Salt Lake with them a distance of eight or ten miles, some time on returning home he would complain of being a little tired. This was when he was well up in his 70's He always kept two years supply of wood on hand. He would cho
p down several cottonwood trees and work them up into stove wood in the wintertime. 
\par 
\par Grandfather was hale and hearty up until two weeks of the time of his death He passed away on 4, Apr. 1891 at the home he purchased when he arrived in Utah in 1861. Aunt M
artha and Uncle Fred never married and lived on the old home until they passed away. Aunt Martha lived to be 97 years old and lived on the place more than 80 years.
\par }}